Descent directions such as movement towards Descent directions, including
movement towards Frank-Wolfe vertices, away-steps, in-face away-steps and
pairwise directions, have been an important design consideration in conditional
gradient descent (CGD) variants. In this work, we attempt to demystify the
impact of the movement in these directions towards attaining constrained
minimizers. The optimal local direction of descent is the directional
derivative (i.e., shadow) of the projection of the negative gradient. We show
that this direction is the best away-step possible, and the continuous-time
dynamics of moving in the shadow is equivalent to the dynamics of projected
gradient descent (PGD), although it's non-trivial to discretize. We also show
that Frank-Wolfe (FW) vertices correspond to projecting onto the polytope using
an "infinite" step in the direction of the negative gradient, thus providing a
new perspective on these steps. We combine these insights into a novel
Shadow-CG method that uses FW and shadow steps, while enjoying linear
convergence, with a rate that depends on the number of breakpoints in its
projection curve, rather than the pyramidal width. We provide a linear bound on
the number of breakpoints for simple polytopes and present scaling-invariant
upper bounds for general polytopes based on the number of facets. We exemplify
the benefit of using Shadow-CG computationally for various applications, while
raising an open question about tightening the bound on the number of
breakpoints for general polytopes.