We study the cluster recovery problem in the semi-supervised active
clustering framework. Given a finite set of input points, and an oracle
revealing whether any two points lie in the same cluster, our goal is to
recover all clusters exactly using as few queries as possible. To this end, we
relax the spherical $k$-means cluster assumption of Ashtiani et al.\ to allow
for arbitrary ellipsoidal clusters with margin. This removes the assumption
that the clustering is center-based (i.e., defined through an optimization
problem), and includes all those cases where spherical clusters are
individually transformed by any combination of rotations, axis scalings, and
point deletions. We show that, even in this much more general setting, it is
still possible to recover the latent clustering exactly using a number of
queries that scales only logarithmically with the number of input points. More
precisely, we design an algorithm that, given $n$ points to be partitioned into
$k$ clusters, uses $O(k^3 \ln k \ln n)$ oracle queries and $\tilde{O}(kn +
k^3)$ time to recover the clustering with zero misclassification error. The
$O(\cdot)$ notation hides an exponential dependence on the dimensionality of
the clusters, which we show to be necessary thus characterizing the query
complexity of the problem. Our algorithm is simple, easy to implement, and can
also learn the clusters using low-stretch separators, a class of ellipsoids
with additional theoretical guarantees. Experiments on large synthetic datasets
confirm that we can reconstruct clusterings exactly and efficiently.