Meta-learning aims to perform fast adaptation on a new task through learning
a "prior" from multiple existing tasks. A common practice in meta-learning is
to perform a train-validation split (\emph{train-val method}) where the prior
adapts to the task on one split of the data, and the resulting predictor is
evaluated on another split. Despite its prevalence, the importance of the
train-validation split is not well understood either in theory or in practice,
particularly in comparison to the more direct \emph{train-train method}, which
uses all the per-task data for both training and evaluation.
  We provide a detailed theoretical study on whether and when the
train-validation split is helpful in the linear centroid meta-learning problem.
In the agnostic case, we show that the expected loss of the train-val method is
minimized at the optimal prior for meta testing, and this is not the case for
the train-train method in general without structural assumptions on the data.
In contrast, in the realizable case where the data are generated from linear
models, we show that both the train-val and train-train losses are minimized at
the optimal prior in expectation. Further, perhaps surprisingly, our main
result shows that the train-train method achieves a \emph{strictly better}
excess loss in this realizable case, even when the regularization parameter and
split ratio are optimally tuned for both methods. Our results highlight that
sample splitting may not always be preferable, especially when the data is
realizable by the model. We validate our theories by experimentally showing
that the train-train method can indeed outperform the train-val method, on both
simulations and real meta-learning tasks.